Title: Cloud Services
Subtitle: and Certifications
Content:
Cloud services provide storage of data in a backend database via the internet. The most well-known cloud service providers are Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure and Google Cloud Platform. However there are other less well-known ones, including: Dropbox, Egnyte, SAP, Verizon Cloud, Salesforce, Adobe, phoenixNAP, Kamatera, Navisite, Rackspace, Oracle Cloud and IBM Cloud.

Often there is a free tier then the service is a scalable pay-as-you-go so the user only pays for resources actually used. Cloud services have built-in redundancy as they are distributed, so the user is less likely to be affected by network equipment failure. 

AWS
AWS offers a range of Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) and Platform as a Service (PaaS) services. These include: EC2 - Elastic Cloud Compute, Elastic Beanstalk, S3 - Simple Storage Service and RDS - a Relational Database Service. There is a 12-month free tier. Customers can customise infrastructure requirements. 

AWS Certifications
AWS offers six different certifications, grouped into four main paths: Cloud Practitioner, Architect, Developer & Operations. There is also a Specialty Path, divided into five subpaths. 

The Cloud Practitioner certification is for users of the service.

The Certified Solutions Architect - Associate - is the best option as a first certification and the student must be able to design, distribute and manage applications using AWS tools. Systems must have high availability and be scaleable with proper security, disaster recovery and trouble-shooting. Recommends 1-year of hands-on experience. The exam costs $150.

Example text from some job ads: Knowledge with Cloud platforms (AWS, Azure, Google) is a plus: building and deploying cloud solutions (AWS preferred). Vous disposez d'une certification Google Cloud Platform (GCP) ou Amazon Web Services (AWS) ou Microsoft Azure. 

Microsoft Azure
Microsoft also provides a range of Software as a Service (SaaS), IaaS & PaaS cloud solutions, including services for Linux. Services include backup & disaster recovery, hosting of web-based and mobile applications with automatic patch management, autoscale and on-site app integration, global distribution of Active Directory and IoT Hub management of IoT devices.

Azure Certifications
Microsoft Certified Solutions Associate (MCSA) – Cloud Platform

Microsoft Certified Solutions Associate (MCSA) – Linux
Pass 2 exams from:
  Developing Microsoft Azure Solutions [Exam 70-532]
  Implementing Microsoft Azure Infrastructure Solutions [Exam 70-533] - start with this one.
  Architecting Microsoft Azure Solutions [Exam 70-534]
  Designing and Implementing Cloud Data Platform Solutions [Exam 70-441]
  Designing and Implementing Big Data Analytics Solutions [Exam 70-475]

MCSE: Cloud Platform and Infrastructure Solutions Expert

Google Cloud
The Google Cloud Platform provides IaaS and PaaS solutions. They provide a number of tools, including: Compute Engine, App Engine, Container Engine, Cloud Storage and Big Query. 

Google Cloud Certification
Google has a 3-month challenge with discounts on training materials etc. There is 1 Associate and 7 Professional Google Cloud Certification levels: 

Associate Cloud Engineer Certification (entry-level):
Includes Qwiklabs. Corsera Architecting with Google Compute Engine, recommends Linux experience. Sections include:
*Compute; Compute Engine, App Engine, Google Kubernetes Engine, Cloud Functions.
*Networking:
*Virtual Private Cloud (VPC)
*Firewall Rules
*Load Balancing
*Classless Inter-Domain Routing (CIDR) - used for IP addressing and routing.
*Virtual Private Network (VPN), Cloud VPN etc.
*Google Command Line Utility, gloud commands.
*Data: Cloud Storage, Cloud SQL, Big Query.
*Other: Stackdriver, Cloud Identity Access Management. 

Professional Cloud Certifications:
1. Professional Cloud Architect
2. Professional Data Engineer
3. Professional Cloud Developer
4. Professional Cloud DevOps Engineer (beta)
5. Professional Cloud Network Engineer
6. Professional Cloud Security Engineer
7. Professional Collaboration Engineer: G suite & Google Cloud Toolset.

Others:
G-suite Certification
Google Cloud - Apigee Certified API Engineer
Associate Android Developer
Mobile Web Specialist
