Title: Mobile App Dev Frameworks 
Subtitle: In a Nutshell
Content:
Traditionally, Android apps were written in Java and iOS apps were written in Swift/Objective-C. However Cross-platform hybrid app development frameworks are increasingly popular as the same code-base can be deployed to multiple platforms, including Android, iOS but also some/all of Blackberry, WebOS, Symbian, Tizen & Bada. The most popular ones (generally open-source & free - but not always) are detailed below:

Ionic: Comes with UI elements like forms, cards, lists, tab bars and navigation menus plus lots more out of the box. Can be used with MS Visual Code. Uses HTML5, CSS3/SCSS & Typescript. Even better is used in PhoneGap. Mostly used with Angular but also available now to use with React and Vue. Uses Cordova plugins to interface with the phone's camera, GPS, Storage, Network status etc. Free but there are paid Pro options.

The most well-known Ionic apps out there are MarketWatch for news and market data, Pacifica for mental health, Sworkit for fitness, JustWatch for a streaming search engine, Joule for sous vide cooking, McDonald's Turkey for food ordering, ChefSteps for learning to cook, Untappd for beer drinking, NMAAHC African American Culture Museum and Diesel for clothes store performance.

PhoneGap: Also called Apache Cordova and is part of Adobe Systems. Uses HTML5, CSS3 & Javascript. Can be used with MS Visual Code. Like Ionic, it is built on top of Cordova and enables access to native APIs so the app can use the camera, geolocation, accelerometer, contacts list etc. Does not support plugins with hooks and is not suitable for gaming apps due to freezing. Also, if developing for iOS a Mac is required for the Software Development Kits. Example apps: TripCase for trip planning, Wikipedia encyclopedia, Democratic and Health Survey (DHS Program) & Paylution for international payments. Market share: 22%

Xamarin: app platform from Microsoft to build Android and iOS apps using C# and .NET. App is written in C# from back-end code such as business logic and data access, to native API access. .NET packages and libraries can be used by Xamarin developers. Can be used with MS Visual Code. Uses an extendible markup language called XAML. Example apps: UPS shipments using Bot Framework, Azure Cognitive Services, Azure Devops. Microsoft Azure App using Azure to keep an eye on resources. Outback Steakhouse manage dining out using App Centre and Azure. Alaska Airlines app for customers and employees using Azure Devops. Allscripts streamline app dev using App Centre, SQL Server and Azure Devops. FOX Sports sporting events app using App Center and SQL Server. Aggreko temporary power gen app using App Center, Azure AD, Azure DevOps annd Azure Service Fabric. HCL created emPower, Merlin, Symphony and Engage business apps. Microsoft News app using Azure. BBC Good Food app. Cincinnati Childrens app Caren using Azure Event, Grid, Azure Functions, Azure Cosmos DB, Azure Devops and Azure Kubernetes Service. JustGiving social giving app. Also: Novarum, Microsoft Seeing AI, American Cancer Society, BBVA, FreshDirect, Taxfyle, Olo, My Coach | Beyond 12 and Miles of Music. 

React Native: Developed by Facebook to build Android and iOS apps using Javascript and the React Javascript library. It does not render using webview (unlike Ionic, Phonegap, Cordova...); it translates code to real native UI elements and uses a 'bridge' built in C/C++ to communicate via asynchronous JSON messages. It has built-in access to all the native views and components, and to about 70 specific device APIs by default. Changes do not require the app to be rebuilt. It can even be used with Angular and Vue. Apps using React Native: Skype, Instagram, Tesla, Shine, Uber Eats, Facebook, Zynga, Walmart, Microsoft.

Corona Native SDK: Developed by Corona Labs Inc. Uses Lua (the leading scripting language for games) on top of C++/OpenGL to build graphics mobile apps for iOS, Android & Kindle, desktop apps for Windows & OS X and conected TV apps for Apple TV, Fire TV and Android TV. Corona API includes audio and graphics, cryptography, networking and device acceleromater info, GPS and user inputs. Apps include Designer City, Cuentopia's Jakhu Stories, Tiny Boxes...

jQuery Mobile: HTML-based user interface javascript library. Compatible with other frameworks such as Phonegap and Whitelight..Uses the AJAX navigation system and HTML5, CSS3 & Javascript. jQuery provided DOM manipulation, animation and AJAX calls but went out of fashion as other frameworks appeared and javascript matured. However jQuery is still used in 77% of the top websites. jQuery Mobile is at version 1.4.5. It is used by Untappd for beer drinking, Goba (Get Out Be Active), Take Me Fishing, Galla Art, Veev, mba Multimedia, Chase mobile banking, Sony Vaio S, Pillow Whisper, Redvolume Records, Geekaphone, Boorbool.

Intel XDK: Created by Intel, uses HTML5, CSS3 and Javascript. Only used by Intel for IoT dev. No longer used for mobile app dev. It should not be in this list but I leave it for info.

Flutter: Flutter does not use Javascript. It uses Dart that compiles to binary code. Native UI components are not used so there is no communication layer between View component and code so graphics are very fast. Flutter works like React with its virtual DOM, rendering only when necessary. Everything is based on widgets, composed on a Skia canvas. Apps using Flutter include: Alibaba e-commerce, Hamilton Musical, realtor.com, Tencent, The New York Times, Square, Google Assistant, ebay, Groupon, CapitalOne etc.

Mobile Angular UI: Used to build mobile apps with HTML5 and Javascript. It is an extension of the Twitter Bootstrap framework and contains mobile components such as overlays, sidebars, scrolling and switches. It has more limited CSS and a lot more dependencies. It can be used with Phonegap. 

Sencha Ext JS: uses Javascript to build cross-platform apps. It has a 115+ pre-built component library, including a Data-Driven Documents (D3) adapter to add visualizations including heatmaps, treemaps, sunbursts etc. Other Sencha frameworks include ExtAngular, ExtReact, Sencha GXT (Java-based framework). Sencha Touch is no longer supported. These frameworks are not free. It is used by American Airlines, Apple, Aptean, Associated Press, AT&T, Real Capital Markets, Governance.io, Cern, Canadian Blood Services, Greentree, Evestment, Nielsen, Williams, Xero, Logic9s

Appcelerator Titanium: Uses the latest versions of Javascript to create native mobile apps for iOS, Android and Windows UWP platforms. There are 4 versions: Classic Titanium, Titanium Alloy, Titanium + Angular and Titanium + Vue. It is used by Avis, Blackbaud, Cisco, T-Mobile & VMWare. 