Title: Mobile App Dev Frameworks 
Subtitle: In a Nutshell
Content:
Traditionally, Android apps were written in Java and iOS apps were written in Swift/Objective-C. However Cross-platform hybrid app development frameworks are increasingly popular as the same code-base can be deployed to multiple platforms, including Android, iOS but also some/all of Blackberry, WebOS, Symbian, Tizen & Bada. The most popular ones (generally open-source & free) are detailed below:

Ionic: Comes with UI elements like forms, cards, lists, tab bars and navigation menus plus lots more out of the box. Can be used with MS Visual Code. Uses HTML5, CSS3/SCSS & Typescript. Even better is used in PhoneGap. Mostly used with Angular but also available now to use with React and Vue. Uses Cordova plugins to interface with the phone's camera, GPS, Storage, Network status etc.

The most well-known Ionic apps out there are MarketWatch for news and market data, Pacifica for mental health, Sworkit for fitness, JustWatch for a streaming search engine, Joule for sous vide cooking, McDonald's Turkey for food ordering, ChefSteps for learning to cook, Untappd for beer drinking, NMAAHC African American Culture Museum and Diesel for clothes store performance.

PhoneGap: Also called Apache Cordova and is part of Adobe Systems. Uses HTML5, CSS3 & Javascript. Can be used with MS Visual Code. Like Ionic, it is built on top of Cordova and enables access to native APIs so the app can use the camera, geolocation, accelerometer, contacts list etc. Does not support plugins with hooks and is not suitable for gaming apps due to freezing. Also, if developing for iOS a Mac is required for the Software Development Kits. Example apps: TripCase for trip planning, Wikipedia encyclopedia, Democratic and Health Survey (DHS Program) & Paylution for international payments.

Xamarin: app platform from Microsoft to build Android and iOS apps using C# and .NET. App is written in C# from back-end code such as business logic and data access, to native API access. .NET packages and libraries can be used by Xamarin developers. Can be used with MS Visual Code. Uses an extendible markup language called XAML. Example apps: UPS shipments using Bot Framework, Azure Cognitive Services, Azure Devops. Microsoft Azure App using Azure to keep an eye on resources. Outback Steakhouse manage dining out using App Centre and Azure. Alaska Airlines app for customers and employees using Azure Devops. Allscripts streamline app dev using App Centre, SQL Server and Azure Devops. FOX Sports sporting events app using App Center and SQL Server. Aggreko temporary power gen app using App Center, Azure AD, Azure DevOps annd Azure Service Fabric. HCL created emPower, Merlin, Symphony and Engage business apps. Microsoft News app using Azure. BBC Good Food app. Cincinnati Childrens app Caren using Azure Event, Grid, Azure Functions, Azure Cosmos DB, Azure Devops and Azure Kubernetes Service. JustGiving social giving app. Also: Novarum, Microsoft Seeing AI, American Cancer Society, BBVA, FreshDirect, Taxfyle, Olo, My Coach | Beyond 12 and Miles of Music. 

React Native:

Corona SDK:

jQuery Mobile:

Intel XDK:

Flutter:

Mobile Angular UI:

Appcelerator Titanium: 